.TH SHMEM_ADDR_ACCESSIBLE 1 2017-06-06 "Intel Corp." "OpenSHEMEM Library Documentation"
.SH NAME
shmem_addr_accessible \-  Determines whether an address is accessible via OpenSHMEM data transfer routines from the specified remote PE.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B C/C++: 
int shmem_addr_accessible(const void *addr, int pe);
.B FORTRAN: 
LOGICAL LOG, SHMEM_ADDR_ACCESSIBLE
INTEGER pe
LOG = SHMEM_ADDR_ACCESSIBLE(addr, pe)
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS Arguments 
.BR "IN " -
.I addr
- Data object on the local PE.
 
.BR "IN " -
.I pe
- Integer id of a remote PE.
.SS API Description
 
.B shmem\_addr\_accessible
is a query routine that indicates whether a local address is accessible via OpenSHMEM routines from the specified remote PE. 

This routine verifies that the data object is symmetric and accessible with respect to a remote PE via OpenSHMEM data transfer routines. The specified address 
.I addr
is a data object on the local PE. 

This routine may be particularly useful for hybrid programming with other communication libraries (such as MPI) or parallel languages. For example, in SGI Altix series systems, for multiple executable MPI programs that use OpenSHMEM routines, it is important to note that static memory, such as a Fortran common block or C global variable, is symmetric between processes running from the same executable file, but is not symmetric between processes running from different executable files. Data allocated from the symmetric heap (
.B shmem\_malloc
or 
.BR "shpalloc" )
is symmetric across the same or different executable files.
.SS Return Values
C/C++: The return value is 1 if 
.I addr 
is a symmetric data object and accessible via OpenSHMEM routines from the specified remote PE; otherwise, it is 0.  

Fortran: The return value is .TRUE. if
.I addr 
is a symmetric data object and accessible via OpenSHMEM routines from the specified remote PE; otherwise, it is .FALSE..

.SS API Notes
 None.
