.TH SHMEM_CACHE 1 2017-06-06 "Intel Corp." "OpenSHEMEM Library Documentation"
.SH NAME
shmem_cache \-  Controls data cache utilities.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B C/C++: 
void shmem_clear_cache_inv(void);
void shmem_set_cache_inv(void);
void shmem_clear_cache_line_inv(void *dest);
void shmem_set_cache_line_inv(void *dest);
void shmem_udcflush(void);
void shmem_udcflush_line(void *dest);
.B FORTRAN: 
CALL SHMEM_CLEAR_CACHE_INV
CALL SHMEM_SET_CACHE_INV
CALL SHMEM_SET_CACHE_LINE_INV(dest)
CALL SHMEM_UDCFLUSH
CALL SHMEM_UDCFLUSH_LINE(dest)

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS Arguments

.BR "IN " - 
.I 
dest
- A data object that is local to the 
PE.  
.I dest
can be of any noncharacter type. If you are using Fortran, it can be of any kind.
.SS API Description

.B shmem\_set\_cache\_inv
enables automatic cache coherency mode.  

.B shmem\_set\_cache\_line\_inv
enables automatic cache coherency mode for the cache line associated with the address of 
.I dest
only.

.B shmem\_clear\_cache\_inv
disables automatic cache coherency mode previously enabled by 
.B shmem\_set\_cache\ \_inv
or 
.BR "shmem\_set\_cache\_line\_inv" .

.B shmem\_udcflush
makes the entire user data cache coherent.  

.B shmem\_udcflush\_line
makes coherent the cache line that corresponds with the address specified by 
.IR "dest" .

.SS Return Values
None.
.SS API Notes
These routines have been retained for improved backward compatibility with legacy architectures.  They are not required to be supported by implementing them as 
no-ops and where used, they may have no effect on cache line states.
.SS Example
None.