.TH START_PES 1 2017-06-06 "Intel Corp." "OpenSHEMEM Library Documentation"
.SH NAME
start_pes \-  Called at the beginning of an OpenSHMEM program to initialize the execution environment. This routine is deprecated and is provided for backwards compatibility. Implementations must include it, and the routine should function properly and may notify the user about deprecation of its use.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B C/C++: 
void start_pes(int npes);
.B FORTRAN: 
CALL START_PES(npes)

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS Arguments
.BR "IN " - 
.I npes
- Unused, Should be set to 0.
.SS API Description
The 
.B start\_pes
routine initializes the OpenSHMEM execution environment. An OpenSHMEM program must call 
.B start\_pes
before calling any other OpenSHMEM routine.
.SS Return Values
None.
.SS API Notes
If any other OpenSHMEM call occurs before 
.BR "start\_pes" ,
the behavior is undefined. Although it is recommended to set 
.I npes
to 
0
for 
.BR "start\_pes" ,
this is not mandated. The value is ignored. Calling 
.B start\_pes
more than once has no subsequent effect. 

As of OpenSHMEM Specification 1.2 the use of 
.B start\_pes
has been deprecated. Although OpenSHMEM libraries are required to support the call, program users are encouraged to use 
.B shmem\_init
instead.
.SS Example

This is a simple program that calls 
.BR "start\_pes" :

./
.nf
PROGRAM PUT
INCLUDE "shmem.fh"
INTEGER TARG, SRC, RECEIVER, BAR
COMMON /T/ TARG
PARAMETER (RECEIVER=1)
CALL START_PES(0)

IF (SHMEM_MY_PE() .EQ. 0) THEN
   SRC = 33
   CALL SHMEM_INTEGER_PUT(TARG, SRC, 1, RECEIVER)
ENDIF

CALL SHMEM_BARRIER_ALL           ! SYNCHRONIZES SENDER AND RECEIVER

IF (SHMEM_MY_PE() .EQ. RECEIVER) THEN
   PRINT*,'PE ', SHMEM_MY_PE(),' TARG=',TARG,' (expect 33)'
ENDIF
END
.fi



